# Styling Existing Components

So far, we've seen how to style HTML elements. `styled-components` also gives us
a simple solution for styling _any_ component, whether that's a component you
made, or a component from a third-party library. Here's how it works:

```js
import styled from "styled-components";
import { Link } from "react-router-dom";

const StyledLink = styled(Link)`
  color: red;
`;

function NavBar() {
  return (
    <nav>
      <StyledLink to="/">Home</StyledLink>
      <StyledLink to="/about">About</StyledLink>
    </nav>
  );
}
```

So the way we can style any component is pretty much identical to the way we can
style and HTML element!

## Exercise

In the example, we're using a custom `Button` component from a third-party
library, `material-ui`.

Try styling the following properties of the `Button` using `styled-components`:

- _width_: `200px`
- _box-shadow_:
  `0 4px 6px rgba(50, 50, 93, 0.11), 0 1px 3px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.08)`
- _padding_: `7px 14px`

Check the Solution for an example of how the button should look!

> Some styles of the Button component, like `color` and `background-color`, are
> already applied by `material-ui`, and will be a bit more challenging to
> override! We'll see how in the extra credit section.

### Extra Credit

If you check out the styles being applied to our updated element, you'll notice
that the styles coming from `material-ui` are taking precedence over our
`styled-component` styles. There are a couple ways to fix this, but the most
flexible is by using the `&` to
[increase specificity of the selector](https://styled-components.com/docs/faqs#how-can-i-override-styles-with-higher-specificity).

Here's how that would look:

```js
const StyledButton = styled(Button)`
  && {
    color: red;
  }
`;
```

By using the `&&`, we add an additional class to the selector, thereby
increasing specificity.

Try using this in the component to change the background color and color, and
override the `material-ui` base styles.

> For `material-ui` specifically, there's also another approach we could take,
> by
> [changing the order that the stylesheets are injected](https://material-ui.com/guides/interoperability/#controlling-priority-3).
> If you're using `material-ui` for your projects, it's worth trying this option
> instead.

You can read about more tips for increasing your CSS specificity in the
[styled-components docs](https://styled-components.com/docs/advanced#issues-with-specificity).
